TROUBLESHOOTING.md, before:

# Troubleshooting

If you're having trouble with the langauge server, check the below for information which
may help. If something isn't covered here, please file an issue with the information given
in [Filing an issue](#filing-an-issue).


## Known issues

There are a few known issues in the current version of the language server:

- Not all `__all__` statements can be handled.
    - Some modules may have an incorrect list of exported names.
    See [#620](https://github.com/Microsoft/python-language-server/issues/620),
    [#619](https://github.com/Microsoft/python-language-server/issues/619).


## Requirements

Python is a requirement for the language server to run. In VS Code, an interpreter
_must_ be selected in order for the language server to properly initialize. If your
language server fails to start, be sure that you have selected an interpreter.

The language server can only run on platforms where the .NET Core can run. This roughly means:

- Windows, 32/64 bit
- macOS, 64 bit
- Linux, 64 bit

The language server ships with its dependencies (including the .NET Core runtime when needed),
but may require outside libraries such as OpenSSL 1.0 or `libicu` on Linux.


## Common questions and issues

### Unresolved import warnings

If you're getting a warning about an unresolved import, first ensure that the
package is installed into your environment if it is a library (`pip`, `pipenv`, etc).
If the warning is about importing _your own_ code (and not a library), continue reading.

The language server treats the workspace root (i.e. folder you have opened) as
the main root of user module imports. This means that if your imports are not relative
to this path, the language server will not be able to find them. This is common
for users who have a `src` directory which contains their code, a directory for
an installable package, etc.

These extra roots must be specified to the language server. The easiest way to
do this (with the VS Code Python extension) is to create a workspace configuration
which sets `python.autoComplete.extraPaths`. For example, if a project uses a
`src` directory, then create a file `.vscode/settings.json` in the workspace
with the contents:


```json
{
    "python.autoComplete.extraPaths": ["./src"]
}
```

This list can be extended to other paths within the workspace (or even with
code outside the workspace in more complicated setups). Relative paths will
be taken as relative to the workspace root.

This list may also be configured using the `PYTHONPATH` environment variable,
either set directly, or via a `.env` file in the workspace root (if using the
Python extension):

```
PYTHONPATH=./src
```

For more examples, see issues:
[#1085](https://github.com/microsoft/python-language-server/issues/1085#issuecomment-492919382),
[#1169](https://github.com/microsoft/python-language-server/issues/1169#issuecomment-499998928)

### "Server initialization failed"

If you see this message, ensure that an interpreter has been selected. (See [Requirements](#requirements)).

### Completion is inaccurate or unavailable when the editor starts

The language server operates in passes. The first pass will preform an initial analysis
of the code, collecting things like function/variable/class names. A second pass will
fill in the rest of the information. Before the second pass is complete, some information
will be incomplete, and some warnings about unresolved imports may occur. The analysis is
complete when the status message (in the bottom bar) disappears.


## Filing an issue

When filing an issue, make sure you do the following:

- Check existing issues for the same problem (also see the "Known Issues" section above for widespread problems).
- Enable trace logging by adding `"python.analysis.logLevel": "Trace"` to your settings.json configuration file.
    - Adding this will cause a large amount of info to be printed to the Python output panel.
    This should not be left long term, as the performance impact of the logging is significant.
- State which language server version you are using: 
    -   To find your version: Select "View: Toggle Output" from the command palette (Ctrl+Shift+P on Windows/Linux, Command+Shift+P on macOS), then select "Python" in the dropdown on the right ("Python Language Server" if running Insiders build of VS Code). Look for the line Microsoft Python Language Server version X in the console.
- State the environment where your code is running; i.e. Python version, the virtual environment type, etc.
    - If using a virtual environment, please include the requirements.txt file.
    - If working with a conda environment, attach the environment.yml file.
- A code example (or any other additional information) we can use to reproduce the issue.

Commit message:

Turn off path watcher by default (#1841)
* Remove stale reference

* Don't suppress LHS diagnostics on augmented assign

* Revert "Don't suppress LHS diagnostics on augmented assign"

This reverts commit 6109ac761f1c2398c5ca6b4f38826cfb28051454.

* Escape [ and ]

* PR feedback

* Turn off file watcher by default

* Update per change to the setting default

TROUBLESHOOTING.md, after:

# Troubleshooting

If you're having trouble with the langauge server, check the below for information which
may help. If something isn't covered here, please file an issue with the information given
in [Filing an issue](#filing-an-issue).


## Known issues

There are a few known issues in the current version of the language server:

- Not all `__all__` statements can be handled.
    - Some modules may have an incorrect list of exported names.
    See [#620](https://github.com/Microsoft/python-language-server/issues/620),
    [#619](https://github.com/Microsoft/python-language-server/issues/619).


## Requirements

Python is a requirement for the language server to run. In VS Code, an interpreter
_must_ be selected in order for the language server to properly initialize. If your
language server fails to start, be sure that you have selected an interpreter.

The language server can only run on platforms where the .NET Core can run. This roughly means:

- Windows, 32/64 bit
- macOS, 64 bit
- Linux, 64 bit

The language server ships with its dependencies (including the .NET Core runtime when needed),
but may require outside libraries such as OpenSSL 1.0 or `libicu` on Linux.


## Common questions and issues

### Unresolved import warnings

If you're getting a warning about an unresolved import, first ensure that the
package is installed into your environment if it is a library (`pip`, `pipenv`, etc).
If the warning is about importing _your own_ code (and not a library), continue reading.

The language server treats the workspace root (i.e. folder you have opened) as
the main root of user module imports. This means that if your imports are not relative
to this path, the language server will not be able to find them. This is common
for users who have a `src` directory which contains their code, a directory for
an installable package, etc.

These extra roots must be specified to the language server. The easiest way to
do this (with the VS Code Python extension) is to create a workspace configuration
which sets `python.autoComplete.extraPaths`. For example, if a project uses a
`src` directory, then create a file `.vscode/settings.json` in the workspace
with the contents:


```json
{
    "python.autoComplete.extraPaths": ["./src"]
}
```

This list can be extended to other paths within the workspace (or even with
code outside the workspace in more complicated setups). Relative paths will
be taken as relative to the workspace root.

This list may also be configured using the `PYTHONPATH` environment variable,
either set directly, or via a `.env` file in the workspace root (if using the
Python extension):

```
PYTHONPATH=./src
```

For more examples, see issues:
[#1085](https://github.com/microsoft/python-language-server/issues/1085#issuecomment-492919382),
[#1169](https://github.com/microsoft/python-language-server/issues/1169#issuecomment-499998928)

### "Server initialization failed"

If you see this message, ensure that an interpreter has been selected. (See [Requirements](#requirements)).

### Completion is inaccurate or unavailable when the editor starts

The language server operates in passes. The first pass will preform an initial analysis
of the code, collecting things like function/variable/class names. A second pass will
fill in the rest of the information. Before the second pass is complete, some information
will be incomplete, and some warnings about unresolved imports may occur. The analysis is
complete when the status message (in the bottom bar) disappears.

### Completions do not update and/or import is still being reported as unresolved after `pip install`
Library search path watching is currently disabled by default in order to mitigate issues reported
in https://github.com/microsoft/python-language-server/pull/1841. If you require this feature, set
`"python.analysis.watchSearchPaths": true` in your user settings.

## Filing an issue

When filing an issue, make sure you do the following:

- Check existing issues for the same problem (also see the "Known Issues" section above for widespread problems).
- Enable trace logging by adding `"python.analysis.logLevel": "Trace"` to your settings.json configuration file.
    - Adding this will cause a large amount of info to be printed to the Python output panel.
    This should not be left long term, as the performance impact of the logging is significant.
- State which language server version you are using: 
    -   To find your version: Select "View: Toggle Output" from the command palette (Ctrl+Shift+P on Windows/Linux, Command+Shift+P on macOS), then select "Python" in the dropdown on the right ("Python Language Server" if running Insiders build of VS Code). Look for the line Microsoft Python Language Server version X in the console.
- State the environment where your code is running; i.e. Python version, the virtual environment type, etc.
    - If using a virtual environment, please include the requirements.txt file.
    - If working with a conda environment, attach the environment.yml file.
- A code example (or any other additional information) we can use to reproduce the issue.
